**Note:** Because this repo relied on the now unsupported `code-davinci-002`, the search demo will no longer work. It is trivial to replace codex with the chat api.
# mathlib-semantic-search
Semantic search for Lean mathlib using OpenAI's [embeddings API](https://openai.com/blog/new-and-improved-embedding-model/) and [Faiss](https://github.com/facebookresearch/faiss). 

Tested with python 3.10.4. Packages in `requirements.txt`. 

## Running demo
Save an openai api key to the environment variable `OPENAI_API_KEY`. Then `cd` into `src` and run `demo_search.py`. The mathlib embeddings are pre-computed, but do note embedding a query will cost you `$0.0004 / 1K tokens`. 

## Recomputing mathlib embeddings
This step is only documented for reproducibility purposes. It is not necessary to run the demo. 

Pull [leanprover-community/doc-gen](https://github.com/leanprover-community/doc-gen) and run the `gen_docs` script. When generating the docs, we used mathlib commit hash `06d0adfa76594f304b4650d098273d4366ede61b`. Move the generated `export.json` to `src/parse_docgen/docgen_export.json`. 

Then, in the `src/parse_docgen` directory run `python parse.py`. Then, `cd` into the `src/embed_mathlib` directory and run `python embed_mathlib.py` and `embeddings_to_numpy.py`. 

## How `demo_search.py` works

At a high-level, the script embeds queries using the embeddings api, then uses Faiss to do a fast kNN search against precomputed embeddings of mathlib declarations. 

The search indexes into the file `src/parse_docgen/docgen_export_with_formal_statement.jsonl`, which is loaded into the `docs` variable in `src/demo_search.py`. The entries of `docs` are in exactly the same format as the entries of the `export.json` generated by `gen_docs`, so in theory we should be use to reuse the `doc-gen` code that maps `export.json` entries to html. 

Each entry of `docs` actually contains one additional field compared to `export.json`: the `formal_statement` field, which is a deparsed string representation of the theorem statement. 
